---
title: 走近查理芒格
date: 2020-02-17 10:25:00 
tags: 经济
category: 经济
---

# 走近查理芒格

## 关于查理芒格的文章

### The Munger Operating System: How to Live a Life That Really Works

1. *To get what you want, deserve what you want. Trust, success, and admiration are earned.* 
2. *Learn to love and admire the right people, alive or dead.*
3. *Acquiring wisdom is a moral duty as well as a practical one.* 
4. *Learn to fluency the big multidisciplinary ideas of the world and use them regularly.* 
5. *Learn to think through problems backwards as well as forward.*
6. *Be reliable. Unreliability can cancel out the other virtues.*
7. *Avoid intense ideologies. Always consider the other side as carefully as your own.*
8. *Get rid of self-serving bias, envy, resentment, and self-pity.* 
9. *At the same time, allow for the self-serving bias in others who haven’t removed it.*（抓住每个人都是谋私利的特点，要说服一个人，要用利益，而不是兴趣）
10. *Avoid being part of a system with perverse incentives.*（关注你的人生激励机制或者薪资机制，是时薪吗）
11. *Work with and under people you admire, and avoid the inverse when at all possible.*
12. *Learn to maintain your objectivity, especially when it’s hardest.*
13. *You’ll be most successful where you’re most intensely interested.*
14. *Learn the all-important concept of assiduity: Sit down and do it until it’s done.*
15. *Use setbacks in life as an opportunity to become a bigger and better person. Don’t wallow.*
16. *The highest reach of civilization is a seamless system of trust among all parties concerned.* 
## 查理芒格演讲


## 查理芒格访谈


## 查理芒格书单

